Traces (#1449)
Snowflake-Labs/sfquickstarts: site/sfguides/src/getting_started_with_traces/getting_started_with_traces.md

If you expand the `get_weather_fn` entry under `__main__:get_weather_for_all_cities`, you can see the Debug Logs by clicking on Logs on the trace to see all the http request information.

This tracing information shows the entire execution timeline with information on every call.

<img src="assets/trace_details.png" width="889" height="513">

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Query the Metrics, Logs, and Trace Data
Duration: 3

Memory and CPU metrics are also available because the session set the METRIC_LEVEL to all.

To get to this data, it is in the Events table.

Find your events table by running this sql:

```sql
SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'event_table' IN ACCOUNT;

```

Query the memory and cpu metrics with this query, replacing `YOUR_EVENT_TABLE` with your event table found in the previous query:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM YOUR_EVENT_TABLE
WHERE
    RECORD_TYPE = 'METRIC' 

>     and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['db.user'] = '{{user_name}}' 

Reviewer: Should we add a filter for query id
`resource_attributes['snow.query.id'] = {{query_id}}`
or function / procedure name
`resource_attributes['snow.executable.name'])::string = {{executable_name}}` as well?

Author: with the database filters, i can't imagine any other parallel work needing filtered

ORDER BY TIMESTAMP DESC;

```

Query the traces with this query, replacing `YOUR_EVENT_TABLE` with your event table found in the previous query:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM YOUR_EVENT_TABLE
WHERE
    RECORD_TYPE = 'SPAN' 
    and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['db.user'] = '{{user_name}}' 
    and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['snow.database.name'] = '{{database_name}}' 
    and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['snow.schema.name'] = '{{schema_name}}'
ORDER BY TIMESTAMP DESC;

```

Query the logs with this query, replacing `YOUR_EVENT_TABLE` with your event table found in the previous query:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM YOUR_EVENT_TABLE
WHERE
    RECORD_TYPE = 'LOG' 
    and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['db.user'] = '{{user_name}}' 
    and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['snow.database.name'] = '{{database_name}}' 
    and RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES['snow.schema.name'] = '{{schema_name}}'
ORDER BY TIMESTAMP DESC;

```

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Disabling Traces and Metrics
Duration: 2

Changing the level of tracing, metrics, and logs can be done similarly to how we enabled it, with SQL.

Add a new SQL Cell and paste in the following contents and run.

```sql
ALTER DATABASE "{{database_name}}" SET LOG_LEVEL = WARN;

> ALTER SCHEMA "{{schema_name}}" SET LOG_LEVEL = WARN;

Reviewer: nit: These should be `OFF` as well. 
https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/parameters#log-level

Author: why, i'd run any production workload in warn or error without concern.

author: Brad Culberson
id: getting_started_with_traces
summary: Getting Started with Traces
categories: featured,getting-started
environments: web
status: Published 
feedback link: https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguides/issues
tags: Getting Started, Data Science, Data Engineering, Snowpark Python, Notebooks, Observability

# Getting Started with Traces
<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Overview 

> Duration: 1

Reviewer 2: Does the UI add units to these? (as in Duration: 1 minute)

Author: yes, it adds them up and shows total time and time remaining

Reviewer 2: Great thanks, we can close this.

> This guide will introduce you to Traces and Resource Metrics in Snowflake which are useful you optimize performance and find errors in notebooks, udfs, and stored procedures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will introduce you to Logs, Traces, and Metrics in Snowflake which can be used to optimize performance and find errors in Notebooks, UDFs, and stored procedures.
```

> It will use APIs from OpenWeather to showcase the capabilities in Snowflake.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will use REST APIs from OpenWeather to showcase the fetch weather data as part of a pipeline.
```

### Prerequisites

- Familiarity with Python and SQL

### What you will Learn

* How to create a Notebook which incorporates python and SQL cells
* How to build a python udf which pulls data from an external API
* How to create a procedure which will populates the bronze level data
* How to trace performance of the procedure and udf
* How to get memory and cpu information from the procedure execution

### What you will Need

* Snowflake account with
 + Access to create a Database
 + Access to create an Integration
 + Account has accepted [external offering terms](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-packages#getting-started)

> * Free API Key from [OpenWeather](https://openweathermap.org/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Free API key from [OpenWeather](https://openweathermap.org/) (The steps to get an API key are covered later in this quickstart)
```

### What you will Build 

> * A Notebook that can pull weather data into a bronze layer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A Notebook that can pull weather data into a bronze layer, as part of a [Medallion Architecture](https://dataengineering.wiki/Concepts/Medallion+Architecture)
```

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Creating the Notebook
Duration: 2

Login to Snowsight using your credentials in Snowflake.

You'll need a Database, Schema, and Warehouse to get started with the notebook.

Run the following sql (in a worksheet) to create the warehouse, database, and schema:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TRACING_QUICKSTART_WH WAREHOUSE_SIZE=XSMALL, INITIALLY_SUSPENDED=TRUE;
CREATE OR REPLACE DATABASE TRACING_QUICKSTART;
CREATE OR REPLACE SCHEMA DATA;

```

> Refresh Quicksight so the new warehouse will be available.

Reviewer 2: Is this refresh necessary if they're going to Projects > Notebooks in the next step?

Author: the warehouse wasn't available for me a few times until i refreshed. i could put in a note that if the warehouse isn't in the drop down, they may need to refresh.

Go to Projects > Notebooks in the left navigation. Click the + Notebook to create a new Notebook. Name the Notebook `TRACING_QUICKSTART` and Select the `TRACING_QUICKSTART` database and the `DATA` schema you created. Select the `TRACING_QUICKSTART_WH` that was just created, leave the default Run on warehouse selected and click Create.

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Setup
Duration: 2

> The first notebook cell will be used to setup the notebook. These variables will be used in subsequent cells using the {{variable_name}} syntax in SQL cells, and by using the variable names in Python cells.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first notebook cell will be used to setup the notebook. These variables will be used in subsequent cells using the `{{variable_name}}` syntax in SQL cells, and by using the variable names in Python cells.
```

Paste this code into the first cell. If you'd like to pull data for other cities, edit the city_list.

```python
import streamlit as st

from snowflake.snowpark.context import get_active_session
session = get_active_session()

user_name = session.sql("SELECT current_user()").collect()[0][0]
schema_name = "DATA"
database_name = "TRACING_QUICKSTART"

city_list = [(37.5533204, -122.3059259, 'San Mateo'), (52.3368551, 4.8694973, 'Amsterdam'),(52.5100227, 13.3776724, 'Berlin'), (52.2299305,20.9764142, 'Warsaw'), (18.5645333,73.911966, 'Pune')]

api_key = st.text_input("Enter API key for openweathermap")
if api_key == "":
    raise Exception("Configuration needed")

```

> When running this cell, it will prompt for entering an API Key. This was done with the streamlit text_input widget. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When running this cell, it will prompt for entering an API Key. This was done with the streamlit `text_input` widget. 
```

To get a free API key, sign up for an account on [OpenWeather](https://home.openweathermap.org/users/sign_up).

> After signing up, add a new API key by going to [API keys](https://home.openweathermap.org/api_keys). Create a new key with name `snowflake_key` and click Generate, copy the api key to the clipboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After signing up, add a new API key by going to [API keys](https://home.openweathermap.org/api_keys). Create a new key with name `snowflake_key` and click Generate, copy the API key to the clipboard.
```

Thanks for adding these additional steps, I think it helps a lot

After generating the key, go back to the Snowsight notebook and paste the key generated in the dialog and hit enter.

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Confgure External API Access
Duration: 2

> In the second notebook cell, a network rule, secret, and external access integration will be configured to allow outbound connectivity to the OpenWeather API. This is necessary because the Python Notebook does not have network access without this configuration. A stage is also created to allow storage of the permanent UDF and procedure. A Permanent (will be stored in the database) UDF and procedure was chosen so these utilities could be called outside the notebook in the future if desired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the second notebook cell you will configure a network rule, secret, and external access integration to allow outbound connectivity to the OpenWeather API. This is necessary because the Python Notebook is secure by default and does not allow network access. A stage is also created to store the permanent UDF and procedure. "Permanent" means that the UDF and stored procedure will be stored in the database so that they can be called from outside the Notebook in the future, such as from a SQL query.
```

Create a new python cell at the bottom of the notebook by clicking on + Python.

Paste this section into the new cell.

```python
import _snowflake
import requests
import json
import logging

from opentelemetry import trace
from snowflake import telemetry

rsession = requests.Session()
def get_weather(lat, lon):
  """
  A UDF handler. Given a latitude and longitude, this UDF will use external network access to get the 
  weather for that area from the OpenWeatherMap API.
  """
  api_key = _snowflake.get_generic_secret_string('api_key')
  url = f"https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?lat={lat}&lon={lon}&exclude=hourly,daily&appid={api_key}"
  tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__) 
  with tracer.start_as_current_span(f"openweather_api_call") as p:
    response = rsession.get(url)
    logging.debug(f"Body from API: {response.text} in get_weather")
    if response.status_code == 200:
        p.set_status(trace.Status(trace.StatusCode.OK))
    else:
        p.set_status(trace.Status(trace.StatusCode.ERROR, str(response.status_code)))
        logging.warn(f"Unexpected response from API: {response.status_code} in get_weather")

>   return response.json()

Reviewer 2: I think we should refactor this to use span events or debug-level logging in the UDF since the UI isn't representing it correctly. Let me schedule a quick call with us and the telemetry team about this scenario, but in any case I don't think it will be fixed before the 15th so we should think about alternatives.

We can add custom spans in the "while" loop of the stored proc to showcase custom spans instead

Reviewer: I agree this scenario was not tested exhaustively, and there could be bugs related to this case. +1 on using span events in the Quick Start, so that this tutorial is not blocked by potential bug fixes needed.
